Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain a Drama film called: "The Only
Living Boy in New York." Spoilers ahead! Watch
out and take care.
For Thomas Webb, his friend Mimi is the only
thing in his life that he's settled on. Thomas
is crazy for her, but unfortunately, she doesn't
feel the same towards him. She only likes
him as a friend, so when Mimi told him that
she's going to Croatia, Thomas feels betrayed.
He confesses his feelings for her, but this
only ends in disappointment when Thomas learns
that they're not on the same page.
After having a little argument with Mimi,
Thomas goes home. Along the way, he meets
his new neighbor, W.F. Gerald. Gerald introduces
himself to Thomas, and when he asks the young
man what's troubling him, Thomas tells him
he's having a bad day. Being a perceptive
person, Gerald asks for the name of the girl
he's having trouble with. Gerald continues
to ask questions about her, making Thomas
feel uneasy. He then asks Gerald if he's a
psychiatrist, and while Gerald says he isn't,
he believes that he could be of some help.
Reluctant to keep answering, Thomas tells
Gerald it was nice meeting him before going
to his apartment. After a while, Thomas decides
to just talk to Gerald and share his feelings
about his friend.
Thomas says that they get each other, but
Mimi has a boyfriend already. He spent a night
with Mimi once, but everything suddenly went
platonic, leaving Thomas confused. In response,
Gerald advises him to make Mimi afraid of
not being with him by letting life take over.
He says that Thomas has to find the right
time before making his move, which Thomas
finds a bit funny. Gerald wisely tells Thomas
that everyone's life is just as random as
it is deliberate and funny as it is tragic.
For Thomas' unstable mother, Judith, throwing
dinner parties is her way of self-medicating.
She likes taking in artists who come to New
York from different places, since they distract
her from her problems and drunken outbursts.
As Thomas joins his mother's dinner party
one night, his father, Ethan, talks about
being a writer. Being a publisher, he observes
that nobody reads fiction anymore, and that's
why most novelists these days don't have enough
money to support themselves. Ethan then tells
them that if ever Thomas wants to be a writer,
he'd talk him out of it. Ethan isn't sure
why his son refuses to go to college since
Thomas is just living on the Lower East Side
without any direction. Still unsure about
his life, Thomas only looks at Ethan, sad
that his father doesn't understand him.
One night, Thomas and Mimi go to a jazz bar.
As they talk about his new neighbor, Thomas
notices his father arrive with a young woman.
As they take their seat, Ethan gets intimate
with the woman and kisses her. Thomas and
Mimi later go back to Thomas' place, and they
two talk about what they've just seen. Thomas
wonders what will happen if his mother finds
out about it, but Mimi assures him that it
doesn't mean his father loves him any less.
But Mimi quickly realizes that that wasn't
a good thing to say, so she apologizes for
her comment. Annoyed, Thomas pours himself
a drink, saying he knows his father doesn't
care about him, but this time, this is about
his mother. Mimi tries to comfort him, but
Thomas still feels bad. As they stare at each
other, Thomas tenderly kisses her, but Mimi
asks him not to do that. Thomas tells her
that he knows she wants it, too, but Mimi
replies that he's just confused. Thomas then
retorts about how angry he is and how he can
never get a woman as beautiful as the one
with his dad, who's good-looking and has his
own publishing house. Irritated, Mimi asks
if he's going to use Ethan's affair as a confirmation
of his own inadequacies, to which Thomas quips
that he has her for that.
The next day, Thomas asks his father out to
lunch, surprising him. During lunch, he tells
Thomas to leave his place in the Lower East
Side and live closer to them. Ethan feels
like he intentionally moved away from them,
and he finds it hurtful. Thomas doesn't reply
to his request and instead asks about his
mother, and when Ethan says she's better,
Thomas reminds him that his mother's condition
is delicate and can change anytime. Ignoring
him, Ethan offers to pay for his rent, and
again, Thomas doesn't answer. Before they
part ways, Ethan informs his son that he's
set an appointment for him with a career counselor.
As Ethan is about to get in a cab, Thomas
tries telling him that he knows about his
affair but decides against it.
When Ethan goes back home, he visits Gerald
and tells him about his father's affair. Gerald
asks him if he will confront his father about
it, but Thomas says he won't because his father
doesn't like him much. He adds that his mother
is a depressive bipolar who quickly unravels
when someone or something threatens their
family. Telling her about his father's affair
will destroy her, but instead of commenting
on what Thomas is saying, Gerald tells him
to furnish his place and that he lives in
Brooklyn. Thomas is surprised that Gerald
has two apartments, and Gerald casually says
he's rich. As Thomas continues to talk about
his father, Gerald asks him what he wants
in life. After considering Gerald's question,
Thomas says he wants to be better than his
parents.
When Ethan had his family, he ignored Thomas'
love for writing. Ethan was afraid that his
son would live a life of rejections, so Thomas
kept his writing to himself. As Thomas grew
older, the bond between him and his mother
intensified, making Ethan feel like an outsider.
However, things had changed when he met Johanna.
One day, Thomas decided to check if his father
will meet his mistress again, so he and Mimi
wait for him outside his office building.
As they do, Johanna comes out of the door,
surprising them. Without thinking, Thomas
follows Johanna, making sure to keep his distance.
He follows her on a train then to a restaurant,
and Thomas can't deny that she really is beautiful.
After finding out where she lives, Thomas
finally goes home. When Gerald learns about
what Tomas did, he asks the young man what
exactly he wants to accomplish. Thomas quickly
says he wants to tell Johanna to stop meeting
his father, so Gerald urges him just to do
it. Unfortunately, Thomas hasn't built up
the courage yet, so he settles with stalking
her in the meantime. However, Gerald believes
Thomas wants something else aside from protecting
his mother. To him, Thomas wants something
more provocative.
Thomas decides to follow Johanna again, and
he is surprised to find out that Johanna knows
him. Johanna recognizes him from his picture
on Ethan's desk, and when she invites him
to grab something to eat, Thomas accepts.
As they sit in a cafe, Thomas learns that
she's a freelance editor, who sometimes works
with his father, and that she's been seeing
Ethan for more than a year already. Fearing
for his mother's mental health, Thomas demands
to know why she's seeing a married man and
asks if she loves his father, but Johanna
evades the question. Thomas wants to know
if she thinks she can steal his father from
his mother, and Johanna simply says that Judith
may already be giving Ethan to her without
realizing it. As Ethan gets confused, Johanna
states that Thomas is craving something without
realizing it, and that is to sleep with her.
At Judith and Ethan's house, Thomas' mother
overreacts over a missing photograph. Upset,
she decides to smoke even though she's not
supposed to, then reminds Thomas that she'll
be lost without him. When Thomas confronts
Johanna for the second time, he straight-up
tells her to stop seeing his father. He believes
that Johanna can have any man in the city,
but when Johanna asks if she can have him,
Thomas doesn't answer and uses his mother's
fragile state as an excuse instead. Johanna
subtly teases Thomas, making him feel as if
he's flirting with her, before leaving.
When Ethan once mentioned to Johanna that
he's leaving Judith, she thought he wasn't
serious. However, the idea has stayed in her
head, suddenly making her needy. Now, Johanna
thinks that Thomas' attention is the remedy
to her rattled confidence. Meanwhile, Thomas
recounts to Gerald his confrontation with
Johanna. Gerald feels like it's pointless
for Thomas to be in contact with Johanna,
implying that he simply likes dealing with
her. Thomas doesn't want to admit it, but
after Gerald keeps pressing him, he finally
confesses that he wants to sleep with her.
At a wedding reception, Thomas and Mimi bump
into Johanna, who's with another man. Thomas
can't help but stare at her, and when Johanna
approaches him, she tells him that she's not
dating the man she's with. As they talk, Thomas
insults Johanna, saying her date probably
paid for her whole evening. Offended, Johanna
walks out, but Thomas quickly follows her
to apologize. Still pissed, Johanna pulls
Thomas aside and tells him her date is gay.
She then claims that he doesn't know how the
world truly works, but Thomas begs to differ.
To prove that he isn't an innocent child,
he gives a vivid run-down of how she probably
seduced his father. As Johanna is about to
say something, Thomas suddenly kisses her.
Instead of getting mad, Johanna kisses him
back, and they start making out. Thomas then
goes back to the party, acting like nothing
happened before telling Mimi they should leave.
Thomas continues to see Johanna and sleeps
with her, while Mimi starts noticing Thomas'
absence. As Thomas gets more comfortable being
with Johanna, he confesses that he wanted
to write. He used to write all sorts of letters
when he was a child, and when he came up with
a collection of essays, he showed it to his
father, who found it to be nothing special,
just serviceable. Johanna feels terrible for
him, and when she says she wants to read his
letters, Thomas responds that he threw them
away. Later on, Thomas shows one of his works
to Gerald, and he thinks Thomas has talent.
He then tells him he thinks about Johanna
all the time, and that maybe it's love, but
Gerald says love is hard to determine. When
asked if he's ever been in love, Gerald explains
that he fell in love with his friend's girl.
They had a connection, but it was a mess,
so he left. Gerald then borrows Thomas' essays,
and before he goes, Thomas proudly tells him
that as of the moment, he doesn't feel guilty
about Johanna.
One time, while Gerald is away, Thomas goes
to his apartment to retrieve his essays. After
seeing no signs of Gerald, he finds a manuscript
written by a Julian Stellars called "The Only
Living Boy in New York." Despite his curiosity,
Thomas doesn't read it and leaves. When he
finds Gerald, Thomas confronts him about his
secret identity, claiming that he's a famous
author who has published 12 books. Thomas
then tells Gerald that he knows he's an alcoholic
who spends most afternoons drinking in the
Brooklyn Inn. As Thomas sits beside Gerald,
he feels happy after realizing that it was
a professional opinion when Gerald said he
had talent. However, he also feels like he
doesn't know anything about the world, but
Gerald disagrees, reminding Thomas that he's
slept with his father's mistress. When Thomas
asks Gerald if he's the only living boy in
New York, Gerald tells him that he is.
Thomas goes to Johanna's house one evening
to give her his essays, but she isn't there.
As he is about to go home, he calls Johanna
to tell her he dropped by her place, but he
is surprised to see her walking with his father.
Curious, Thomas follows them as they enter
a restaurant, and upon seeing the two being
sweet to each other, Thomas leaves. When he
meets Mimi later that night, Mimi asks him
if he's slept with Johanna, but Thomas denies
it.
After making love with Johanna, Thomas insists
she stop seeing Ethan, but Johanna doesn't
care about what he wants. Upset that Johanna
won't listen to him, Thomas asks about her
childhood instead. When he asks what her father
does, Johanna reveals that her father took
his life. Feeling sorry for her, Thomas changes
the subject and asks why she sleeps with him
and what she likes about him. Johanna says
she likes him and his innocence, but when
Thomas asks if she was ever innocent, Johanna
says she forgot. Annoyed, Johanna questions
why he's with someone not as pure as her,
and Thomas simply tells her he cares about
her. As they stare into each others' eyes,
Johanna says she doesn't care about anyone.
However, she knows that that's a lie, as she
cares about Ethan and Thomas.
Thomas meets Gerald later on and asks him
why he's writing about him. While smoking
his tobacco, Gerald says he left his house
and got the apartment to write about something
new but failed. When he met Thomas, he found
his story interesting and started writing
about him. Letting the subject go, Thomas
invites Gerald to his father's party for his
publishing house's anniversary, but Gerald
declines.
As Thomas and Mimi go to the party together,
she tells Thomas that she broke up with her
boyfriend. Thomas seems uninterested in the
news, disappointing Mimi. At the party, Thomas
sees Gerald by the bar and approaches him.
Thomas points to Judith and Mimi, and Gerald
says his mother is beautiful. Thomas then
goes to his mother and tells her there's someone
he wants her to meet. But when they go to
the bar, Gerald is already gone. On the rooftop,
Gerald approaches Johanna and says he knows
her very well. Seeing that Johanna is confused,
Gerald subtly warns her not to break Thomas'
heart, making her feel uncomfortable. Johanna
then leaves, and as she goes back to the party,
she just walks past Thomas.
Worried, Thomas quickly follows her, and once
he catches up to Johanna, she tells him they
should stop seeing each other. She breaks
the news that Ethan proposed to her, and she
accepted. Angry, Thomas tells her that his
father is just going through a crisis and
that he will never let him leave his mother.
Johanna tries reasoning with him, saying she's
just saving Judith from the weight of a dead
marriage, but Thomas won't hear her out. Upset,
Thomas says he'll tell his father about them
and walks away with Johanna trying to stop
him. However, Thomas suddenly changes his
mind and leaves the party.
Mimi follows Thomas as he goes home. Under
the rain, she confesses that she broke up
with her boyfriend because she got into Croatia,
and she wants Thomas to come with her. Instead
of accepting Mimi's invitation, Thomas confesses
that he slept with Johanna and he thought
he was in love with her, but Mimi doesn't
believe him. When Thomas insists he's telling
the truth, Mimi walks away, and even with
Thomas' apologies, Mimi doesn't care anymore.
Mimi leaves in a car, and when Thomas finally
gets to his parents' house, he lies down in
bed and immediately falls asleep.
The following morning, Judith is surprised
to see that Thomas has spent the night there.
She wonders if Thomas has a problem, and he
tells his mother that things got messy and
he wants to bail. Concerned, Judith tells
him that the only way out is through, and
Thomas agrees with her. He then goes to his
father's office, where he bumps into Johanna.
The two race to Ethan's office, and when Thomas
gets there first, he immediately tries to
confess about Johanna. When Johanna arrives,
she tries to stop Thomas from talking, and
in the middle of it all, Ethan gets confused
to learn that his son and mistress know each
other. Determined to get everything out of
his chest, Thomas admits that he slept with
Johanna more than once. This mortifies Johanna,
and she turns around as she cries, while Ethan
starts getting emotional, too. Suddenly, Ethan
attacks Thomas, asserting that he has no idea
how much he's done for him. Ethan cries as
he touches Johanna, and when it gets too overwhelming
for him, he leaves. Alone with Thomas in Ethan's
office, Johanna tells him she really loves
his father. Before going, Johanna shows Thomas
a newspaper clipping of him while playing
tennis, with Gerald in the crowd.
Thomas goes to Gerald's apartment to confront
the man, but Gerald isn't there. When he sees
the ashtray from Brooklyn Inn, Thomas immediately
heads there and finds Gerald drinking in the
bar. When Thomas shows him the newspaper clipping,
Gerald admits that he's Thomas' biological
father. When Ethan and Judith found out that
Ethan's infertile, they asked for Gerald's
help, and he happily obliged. Gerald admits
to falling in love with Judith, but after
she gave birth to Thomas, Gerald decided not
to complicate things and just watch his son
from afar. Gerald says he was desperate to
connect with him and nurture his talent, but
he never did. After that, Gerald turned his
story into his next book, and as Thomas listens
to his father, he hugs Gerald until he cries.
Thomas returns to his parents' house and learns
that his mother already knows about everything.
He then starts talking about Gerald, saying
he knows she's been in love with him for the
last 25 years. Judith is confused as to how
Thomas knew about it, and Thomas says Gerald
told him about their story himself. Guilty,
Judith tells Thomas it was her idea not to
say anything about his birth father, and Thomas
understands. With their secrets finally out
in the open, Judith asks about Gerald's welfare,
and Thomas happily answers her.
After some time, Thomas is at the library
he works in, and there, he reads his letter
of rejection from a publishing company. Ethan
suddenly shows up, and after he gets a copy
of Gerald's book, Thomas expresses his admiration
for him for not running away. They then do
some catching up in the park, where Thomas
tells Ethan that Mimi has finally moved to
Croatia. When Thomas asks if he still speaks
with Johanna, Ethan says he doesn't anymore.
He then asks about Judith, and Thomas is delighted
to tell him that she's finally quit smoking
and started writing for ARTnews again. Thomas
also adds that Judith has a date later in
the evening, and Ethan says that's good for
her. After they part ways, Thomas goes to
Gerald's book-reading event, where he sees
his mother happily listening to the man she
loves.